Source #1: https://thewaterproject.org/water-in-crisis-south-africa 
AboutThe Water CrisisGet Involved & Give Clean WaterHow WeProve Our Work
South Africa is a country located at the Southern Tip of Africa. About twice the size of Texas it is home to 49 million people. This country has been stricken by affects from
the long standing apartheid to the devastation that diseases such as HIV/AIDS and TB have caused. Now another crisis looms in the distance: Water. As
more and more people migrate into cities from rural villages the pressure for the city to meet the water demands is ever increasing.

There are many reasons that attribute to this growing water crisis in South Africa. Climate change has affected water supplies within the region. Rains
that usually come and supply the country's water has come infrequently. For example in Durban the Dams are 20 percent lower than at the start of
2010. Due to this fact cities are looking to impose water restrictions on communities.

Another problem that Durban in particular faces is stolen water. According to one report 35 percent of the cities water is stolen
or given out through illegal connections.

Also, preventative measures that were put in place such as the construction of dams in the area have not even started or are still in the process of
being built and those structures that are in place now are slowly collapsing. Those in rural areas still lack access to water. One report stated that
in 2008 about 5 million people lack access to water and 15 million lack access to basic sanitation. This number has improved greatly since the
end of apartheid in 1994, however these numbers are still too high and not one person should ever lack access to the most basic necessity of life,
which is water.

Interestingly enough South Africa boast one of the most clean water systems in the world, however due to the lack of sanitation and access in the
country's rural communities the threat of water borne disease is steadily increasing.
The Vaal River, the largest river in South Africa and popular tourist destination is becoming increasingly contaminated with fecal material due to the
lack of sanitation supplies. It is so bad that the local water agency Rand Water
issued a statement that contact with the river may lead to serious infection. Wildlife is also being affected from the raw sewage run off. A
court-ordered mandate was issued to remove 20 tons of dead fish from the river after a
local NGO SAVE (Save the Vaal River Environment) took the Emfuelni munincipilty to
court for leaking raw sewage into the river. They blamed the reason for dumping sewage in the river on old pipes.

Overall, infrastructure is lacking, whether or not it is old pipes or ignorance the South Africa water crisis is here and affecting millions. There has
been a backlog in services since the end of apartheid and that needs to change. The national and local governments of South Africa need to do a better
job of offering services to their people. Supplies need to be given to those most in need. By taking care of the rural population the government will
be helping the cities, because it is these rural communities where the damage to the water supply is beginning due to lack of access to sanitation
supplies and clean water education.
Learn More » 
 FundraiseAboutThe Water CrisisGet InvolvedGive Clean WaterHow WeProve Our WorkEnd of Source: #1 


Source #2: https://www.un.org/en/sections/issues-depth/water/ 
Water is at the core of sustainable development and is critical for socio-economic development, energy and food production, healthy ecosystems and for human survival itself. Water is also at the heart of adaptation to climate change, serving as the crucial link between the society and the environment. Water is also a rights issue. As the global population grows, there is an increasing need to balance all of the competing commercial demands on water resources so that communities have enough for their needs. In particular, women and girls must have access to clean, private sanitation facilities to manage menstruation and maternity in dignity and safety.At the human level, water cannot be seen in isolation from sanitation. Together, they are vital for reducing the global burden of disease and improving the health, education and economic productivity of populations. One of the most important recent milestones has been the recognition in July 2010 by the United Nations General Assembly of the human right to water and sanitation. The Assembly recognized the right of every human being to have access to sufficient water for personal and domestic uses (between 50 and 100 litres of water per person per day), which must be safe, acceptable and affordable;(water costs should not exceed 3 per cent of household income), and physically accessible (the water source has to be within 1,000 metres of the home and collection time should not exceed 30 minutes).Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) 6 is to “Ensure availability and sustainable management of water and sanitation for all”.  The targets cover all aspects of both the water cycle and sanitation systems, and their achievement is designed to contribute to progress across a range of other SDGs, most notably on health, education, economics and the environment.The United Nations has long been addressing the global crisis caused by insufficient water supply to satisfy basic human needs and growing demands on the world’s water resources to meet human, commercial and agricultural needs.The United Nations Water Conference (1977), the International Drinking Water Supply and Sanitation Decade (1981-1990), the International Conference on Water and the Environment (1992) and the Earth Summit (1992) — all focused on this vital resource. The ‘Water for Life’ International Decade for Action 2005-2015 helped around 1.3 billion people in developing countries gain access to safe drinking water and drove progress on sanitation as part of the effort to meet the Millennium Development Goals.Recent milestone agreements include the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, the 2015-2030 Sendai Framework for Disaster Risk Reduction, the 2015 Addis Ababa Action Agenda on Financing for Development, and the 2015 Paris Agreement within the UN Convention Framework on Climate Change.Contaminated water and a lack of basic sanitation are undermining efforts to end extreme poverty and disease in the world’s poorest countries.Currently, there are 2.3 billion people worldwide, who still do not have basic sanitation facilities such as toilets or latrines. According to the WHO/UNICEF Joint Monitoring Programme for Water Supply and Sanitation, at least 1.8 billion people world-wide are estimated to drink water that is not protected  against contamination from faeces. An even greater number drink water, which is delivered through a system without adequate protection against sanitary hazards. Unclean water and poor sanitation are a leading cause of child mortality. Childhood diarrhoea is closely associated with insufficient water supply, inadequate sanitation, water contaminated with communicable disease agents, and poor hygiene practices. Diarrhoea is estimated to cause 1.5 million child deaths per year, mostly among children under five living in developing countries. The links between lack of water and sanitation access and the development goals are clear, and the solutions to the problem are known and cost-effective. Research shows that every US $1 invested in improved sanitation translates into an average return of US $9. Those benefits are experienced specifically by poor children and in the disadvantaged communities that need them most.Every year, there are two UN international observances on water and sanitation: World Water Day, 22 March and World Toilet Day, 19 November. Each day is marked by a public campaign which is about raising awareness of the issues, focusing attention on a particular theme, and inspiring action.The International Decade for Action, ‘Water for Sustainable Development,’ started on World Water Day, 22 March 2018, and will end on World Water Day, 22 March 2028.The Decade is about accelerating efforts towards meeting water-related challenges, including limited access to safe water and sanitation, increasing pressure on water resources and ecosystems, and an exacerbated risk of droughts and floods.End of Source: #2 


Source #3: https://wateractiondecade.org/wp-content/uploads/2018/03/UN-SG-Action-Plan_Water-Action-Decade-web.pdf 
%PDF-1.5%âãÏÓ
1904 0 obj<>endobj         xref1904 410000000016 00000 n
0000002405 00000 n
0000002571 00000 n
0000002608 00000 n
0000003086 00000 n
0000003739 00000 n
0000004316 00000 n
0000004420 00000 n
0000005024 00000 n
0000005541 00000 n
0000005654 00000 n
0000005769 00000 n
0000006325 00000 n
0000006968 00000 n
0000007773 00000 n
0000008563 00000 n
0000009294 00000 n
0000010116 00000 n
0000010562 00000 n
0000010948 00000 n
0000011427 00000 n
0000011806 00000 n
0000012244 00000 n
0000012661 00000 n
0000013355 00000 n
0000014138 00000 n
0000014721 00000 n
0000014821 00000 n
0000015403 00000 n
0000016062 00000 n
0000016746 00000 n
0000017119 00000 n
0000017546 00000 n
0000028751 00000 n
0000034668 00000 n
0000037823 00000 n
0000042436 00000 n
0000048357 00000 n
0000153018 00000 n
0000002193 00000 n
0000001116 00000 n
trailer<<01FB57172E5446B890C9636873870F02>]/Prev 408407/XRefStm 2193>>startxref0%%EOF1944 0 obj<>stream
hÞb```b``½ÆÀÆÀÀbÉ Ä€ B@1vŽdp€a]µÃ¢	_–±Þt¸•àzC ˜QœáX ÛÞ×s°ádEnd of Source: #3 


Source #4: https://tandfonline.com/doi/full/10.1080/07900627.2016.1188266?src=recsys 
Water is an issue that relates to all aspects of human development in Africa, including health, agriculture, education, economics, and even peace and stability. But the perception that Africa has perpetual water scarcity and is heading towards water crisis is challenged by a significant number of water professionals. Although most agree that Africa suffers from economic water scarcity, physical water scarcity could possibly be controlled with better water management. The large amount of international aid granted annually to Africa is a subject of criticism. This article examines the water crisis in Africa, whether it is a myth or reality, and reasons thereof, and suggests remedial measures.
Article Purchase

                                        
                                            24 hours to view or download:
                                        
                                            USD 43.00
                                    


Add to cart
                                    


Issue Purchase

                                        
                                            30 days to view or download:
                                        
                                            USD 461.00
                                    


Add to cart
                                    

Registered in England & Wales No. 3099067
5 Howick Place | London | SW1P 1WGWe use cookies to improve your website experience.  To learn about our use of cookies and how you can manage your cookie settings, please see our Cookie Policy.  By closing this message, you are consenting to our use of cookies.End of Source: #4 


Source #5: https://www.afro.who.int/health-topics/water 
 Water
Water is essential for life and good health. Fresh water is not only needed for drinking but also cooking, food production and a variety of other uses such as sanitation, hygiene and cleanliness practises. Lack of sanitation can force people to defecate in the open, in rivers and near areas where children play. These habits result in 115 deaths every hour in the African Region.Bacteria, viruses, parasites and pollution contaminate freshwater stores resulting in water scarcity. Water scarcity is a major problem even in areas where there is plenty of rainfall. A lack of clean water increases the risk of diarrhoeal diseases as cholera, typhoid fever and dysentery, and other water-borne tropical diseases. Water scarcity can also lead to diseases such as trachoma (an eye infection that can lead to blindness), plague and typhus.Water scarcity affects 1 in 3 people in the African Region and is getting worse with population growth, urbanization and increases in household and industrial uses.Water scarcity often encourages people to store water in their homes. This can increase the risk of household water contamination and provide breeding grounds for mosquitoes. Mosquitoes are carriers of dengue fever, malaria and other diseases.Protection of the Human EnvironmentSafe and readily available water is important for public health, whether it is used for drinking, domestic use, food production or recreational purposes. Improved water supply and sanitation, and better management of water resources, can boost countries’ economic growth and can contribute greatly to poverty reduction.In 2010, the UN General Assembly explicitly recognised the human right to water and sanitation. Everyone has the right to sufficient, continuous, safe, acceptable, physically accessible and affordable water for personal and domestic use.The Millennium Development Goal (MDG 7) on drinking-water was met globally in 2010. The target was to halve the proportion of the world’s population without sustainable access to safe water. The 48 least developed countries did not meet the target, but substantial progress has been made with 42 per cent of the current population in these countries gaining access to improved drinking-water sources since 1990.Sharp geographic, sociocultural and economic inequalities persist, not only between rural and urban areas but also in towns and cities where people living in low-income, informal or illegal settlements usually have less access to improved sources of drinking-water than other residents.Contaminated water and poor sanitation are linked to transmission of diseases such as cholera, diarrhoea, dysentery, hepatitis A, typhoid and polio. Absent, inadequate, or inappropriately managed water and sanitation services expose individuals to preventable health risks. This is particularly the case in health care facilities where both patients and staff are placed at additional risk of infection and disease when water, sanitation and hygiene services are lacking. Globally, 15% of patients develop an infection during a hospital stay, with the proportion much greater in low-income countries.Inadequate management of urban, industrial and agricultural wastewater means the drinking-water of hundreds of millions of people is dangerously contaminated or chemically polluted.Some 842 000 people are estimated to die each year from diarrhoea as a result of unsafe drinking-water, sanitation and hand hygiene. But diarrhoea is largely preventable, and the deaths of 361 000 children aged under 5 each year could be avoided each year if these risk factors were addressed. Where water is not readily available, people may decide handwashing is not a priority, thereby adding to the likelihood of diarrhoea and other diseases.Diarrhoea is the most widely known disease linked to contaminated food and water but there are other hazards. Almost 240 million people are affected by schistosomiasis – an acute and chronic disease caused by parasitic worms contracted through exposure to infested water.In many parts of the world, insects that live or breed in water carry and transmit diseases such as dengue fever. Some of these insects, known as vectors, breed in clean, rather than dirty water, and household drinking-water containers can serve as breeding grounds. The simple intervention of covering water storage containers can reduce vector breeding and may also have a co-benefit of reducing faecal contamination of water at the household level.When water comes from improved and more accessible sources, people spend less time and effort in physically collecting it, meaning they can be productive in other ways. It can also result in greater personal safety by reducing the need to make long or risky journeys to collect water. Better water sources also mean less expenditure on health, as people are less likely to fall ill and incur medical costs, and are better able to remain economically productive.With children particularly at risk from water-related diseases, access to improved sources of water can result in better health and therefore better school attendance, with longer-term consequences for their lives.The MDG water target is measured by the proxy indicator of use of ‘improved’ or ‘unimproved’ drinking-water sources. But ‘improved sources’ are not necessarily safe. At least 1.8 billion people use a drinking-water source that is contaminated with faecal matter. A substantial proportion of water supplied through pipes is contaminated, especially where water supply is intermittent or treatment is inadequate. Even where the source is good, water can be contaminated while being transported or stored, especially in environments where sanitation is inadequate.Climate change, increasing water scarcity, population growth, demographic changes and urbanization already pose challenges for water supply systems. By 2025, half of the world’s population will be living in water-stressed areas. Re-use of wastewater, to recover water, nutrients, or energy, is becoming an important strategy. Increasingly countries are using wastewater for irrigation – in developing countries this represents 7% of irrigated land. While this practice if done inappropriately poses health risks, safe management of wastewater can yield multiple benefits, including increased food production.Options for water sources used for drinking-water and irrigation will continue to evolve, with an increasing reliance on groundwater and alternative sources, including wastewater. Climate change will lead to greater fluctuations in harvested rainwater. Management of all water resources will need to be improved to ensure provision and quality.As the international authority on public health and water quality, WHO leads global efforts to prevent transmission of waterborne disease, advising governments on the development of health-based targets and regulations.WHO produces a series of water quality guidelines, including on drinking-water, safe use of wastewater, and safe recreational water environments. The water quality guidelines are based on managing risks, and since 2004 the Guidelines for Drinking-water Quality included the promotion of Water Safety Plans to identify and prevent risks before water is contaminated. In 2015, WHO introduced the concept of Sanitation Safety Plans to support implementation of the wastewater guidelines. WHO works on promoting effective risk assessment and management practices among all groups, including suppliers of drinking water, wastewater treatment companies, farmers, communities and individuals.Since 2014, WHO has been testing household water treatment products against WHO health-based performance criteria through the WHO International ‘Scheme’ to Evaluate Household Water Treatment Technologies. The aim of the Scheme is to ensure that products distributed protect users from the pathogens that cause diarrhoeal disease and to strengthen policy, regulatory, and monitoring mechanisms at the national level to support appropriate targeting and consistent and correct use of such products.WHO works closely with UNICEF in a number of areas concerning water and health. For example, the integrated global action plan to end preventable child deaths from pneumonia and diarrhoea by 2025 (GAPPD) sets out several prevention and treatment targets, including achieving universal access to drinking water in health care facilities and homes by 2030. The means of implementation for the work in health care facilities cuts across several health areas, including quality universal health coverage, and the two agencies have established a work plan to incrementally work towards universal access at the facility, national and global level.End of Source: #5 


Source #6: https://reliefweb.int/report/south-africa/south-africas-water-crisis-bigger-cape 
SA is overexploiting its water system, and the problem is getting harder and costlier to fix.South Africa is running out of water. Not just Cape Town, the entire country. The problem is most immediate in the Mother City, but the country has been overexploiting its national water system for years, and the consequences are becoming obvious.Since 2016, the City of Cape Town has had to invent new categories of water restrictions, twice. Last week level 6 restrictions were imposed and residents are now limited to just 50 litres a day. Cape Town has already nearly halved its total annual water consumption, from more than 1.1 billion litres in 2016 to about 590 million last year. But this hasn’t been enough.While Cape Town is the epicentre of the current crisis, the trouble is not exclusive to the Western Cape. In the Eastern Cape, Nelson Mandela Bay increased water restrictions and tariffs in May 2017, warning that dam levels had dropped below the ‘critically low point of 40%’. The municipality is calling on residents to voluntarily observe Cape Town’s 50-litres-a-day rule. There are also still level 1 restrictions in Johannesburg, Durban and other metropolitan areas.Many are asking how the country got here. It was possible to see it coming. In 2014, the Institute for Security Studies (ISS) used the International Futures (IFs) forecasting system, housed at the Frederick S Pardee Center for International Futures at the University of Denver, to model water supply and demand in South Africa. The report found that the country was overexploiting its resources at a national level and would continue to do so until 2035.In 2015, the ISS began working with the Water Research Commission (WRC), and in a subsequent paper found that even if all Department of Water and Sanitation (DWS) reconciliation strategies were implemented as planned, they’d still be insufficient to reconcile supply and demand. Not much has changed since then.So what is driving this overuse? For one, wastewater treatment in South Africa is in an appalling condition. The 2014 Green Drop Report concluded that nearly a quarter of the country’s wastewater treatment facilities were in a ‘critical state’, with another quarter listed as ‘high risk’. The DWS no longer publishes this report (a problem in itself), but local NGO AfriForum has attempted a similar enterprise. They found that two-thirds of tested facilities didn’t meet national water quality standards, an increase of more than 100% from 2016 levels.What’s more, South Africans use a lot of water – 235 litres per person daily compared to a global average of 173 litres.The reality is probably even more stark. Given the levels of inequality in the country, wealthy citizens probably consume much more than the national average, while disadvantaged South Africans probably consume far less.South Africa’s high per-capita usage rates are also, partly, a function of high levels of non-revenue water (i.e. water that is unaccounted for – in South Africa this is mostly through physical leaks) and a high reliance on water-intensive coal-fired power plants for electricity. Finally, the country is overly dependent on surface water, and doesn’t sufficiently use other resources like groundwater.South Africa is also coming off a historic drought. According to the South African Weather Service, 2015 was the driest year on record. Figure 1 shows surface water storage levels in the Berg-Olifants catchment (which serves Cape Town metro), including annual fluctuations. It illustrates the decline in dam levels starting in mid-2014 (solid black line). While there is seasonal variation, there is also a downward trend, with each peak and trough a bit lower than the last. The catchment has not been considered ‘normal’ since mid-2015.But dam levels only tell part of the story. As of 13 January 2018, DWS classified 243 of South Africa’s 565 rivers as ‘low’ or ‘very low’, and a 2015 study from the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development noted that over a quarter of the country’s river ecosystems were critically endangered.If Cape Town runs out of water, it will quickly become a national, not a provincial, emergency. There would be massive outward migration, which will drive up water use in other parts of the country and increase the dangers of overexploitation. People will suffer from dehydration, the agriculture industry will shrink, investors will panic and there could even be security implications.Both the African National Congress (ANC) and the Democratic Alliance (DA) have been guilty of politicising the issue. Trying to score political points with something as critical to human life as water is a brazen act that is unlikely to be politically advantageous in the long run.There is blame to share: national government has not been investing in the development and maintenance of bulk infrastructure, and provincial and local government have not managed demand effectively. South Africa also doesn’t have a culture of water conservation. Appropriate pricing and other incentives can help nudge that awareness along, but all residents – not just those in Cape Town or Nelson Mandela Bay – must use water more responsibly.In 2014 and 2016, the ISS argued that a basket of demand reduction and conservation strategies combined with supply enhancement measures above and beyond what is proposed by DWS could bring the water system in South Africa into balance – but even then, only by 2035. Those recommendations are no longer adequate. Now the country needs to implement all the strategies identified in the ISS research along with a series of aggressive stop-gap measures to address the current crisis.The future of South Africa’s water sector is uncertain. Nobody can be sure how much rain will fall over the coming decade. But what is clear is that the country is living beyond its water resources. Each day that passes, with each leaky tap and broken pipe, the problem is becoming more difficult, and more expensive, to fix.Zachary Donnenfeld, Senior Researcher, African Futures and Innovation, ISS PretoriaA service provided by
          UN OCHAReliefWeb has been the leading online source for reliable and timely humanitarian information on global crises and disasters since 1996.Learn more about ReliefWebLes récents visiteurs du site mobile de ReliefWeb auront remarqué un nouvel outil... Un sélecteur de langue est maintenant disponible dans le coin supérieur droit du site.
Visit the blog
Share information through ReliefWeb to better inform humanitarians worldwide.End of Source: #6 


Source #7: https://www.theguardian.com/world/2018/may/04/back-from-the-brink-how-cape-town-cracked-its-water-crisis 
Reusing shower water, limiting toilet flushing and night-time irrigation were among measures that saved South Africa’s second city from running dry
Krista Mahr

Fri 4 May 2018 08.04 EDT


Last modified on Mon 6 Aug 2018 09.44 EDT

Late last year, as the South African government faced the prospect of its largest city running out of water, they took an unprecedented gamble.The government announced “day zero” – a moment when dam levels would be so low that they would turn off the taps in Cape Town and send people to communal water collection points. This apocalyptic notion prompted water stockpiling and panic, caused a drop in tourism bookings, and raised the spectre of civil unrest.It also worked. After years of trying to convince residents to conserve, the aggressive campaign jolted people into action. Water use was (and still is) restricted to 50 litres per person per day. (In 2016, average daily per capita use in California was 321 litres.) Households that exceed the limit face hefty fines, or having a meter installed in their home that shuts off their water once they go over.Capetonians started showering standing over buckets to catch and re-use that water, recycling washing machine water, and limiting loo flushes to once a day.“It was the most talked about thing in Cape Town for months when it needed to be,” says Priya Reddy, the city’s communication director. “It was not a pretty solution, but it was not a pretty problem.”Cape Town’s water use dropped from 600m litres per day in mid 2017 to 507m litres per day at the end of April. That’s still short of the 450m the city should be using, but Reddy says it couldn’t have been achieved otherwise. “We really did need to make it alarming enough, otherwise day zero would have happened.”“The day zero campaign made us all think twice about water,” says Sue Fox, after collecting several litres of drinking water for her household from a natural spring in Newlands, an upmarket Cape Town enclave. “We’ll never, ever, ever take water for granted again.”Ever wondered why you feel so gloomy about the world - even at a time when humanity has never been this healthy and prosperous? Could it be because news is almost always grim, focusing on confrontation, disaster, antagonism and blame?This series is an antidote, an attempt to show that there is plenty of hope, as our journalists scour the planet looking for pioneers, trailblazers, best practice, unsung heroes, ideas that work, ideas that might and innovations whose time might have come.Readers can recommend other projects, people and progress that we should report on by contacting us at theupside@theguardian.com As global temperatures continue to rise, cities around the world will have to figure out how to do more with less water. The Western Cape’s multi-pronged response to its water crisis – from farming innovations to reducing urban water use to diversifying water supply sources – could serve as a blueprint for cities that find themselves, like Cape Town, looking at near-empty dams.“We have pushed the limits far more than most other cities,” says Deputy Mayor Ian Neilson, who is in charge of the city’s water crisis response. “Millions of people have responded – literally millions.”But it’s not all positive stories of innovation, responsibility and altruism. Farmers in the drought-affected area have had to abandon as much as a quarter of their crops, by some estimates, and tens of thousands of agricultural jobs have been lost in the fray.“This is the one that makes me the most depressed,” says Derick van Zyl pointing to a long row of parched trees in his apple orchard. These trees on the Esperanto Farm produce Pink Lady apples, a coveted variety exported thousands of miles to the UK and Europe. They haven’t been watered in months.Esperanto is one of hundreds of fruit farms in South Africa’s Western Cape province that has had to get creative to cope with the drought. Despite Esperanto’s dams being at 28% capacity as of last October, most of its orchards have been luckier than these bedraggled Pink Ladys, thanks to water-saving hacks like night-time irrigation, mulching and concentrating water around the trees’ roots systems.Production is down, but not as much as it could be.Finding ways to farm with less water is the new normal, Van Zyl says. Even if the Western Cape’s drought ends with the upcoming rainy season – and that’s a big if – climate change means warmer temperatures are on the way, he says. “There isn’t going to be more water. We’ll have to make do with what we’ve got.”The combination of measures appears to have averted water armageddon - for now. The City has pushed back the day zero date to 2019.The move met with a heady mix of relief and exasperation. People wondered whether it had been a hoax, or an attempt for the city to make money off higher water fines.The city has also faced criticism that it allowed political turmoil within City Hall – Mayor Patricia De Lille has been under fire for months – to slow down its response to the water crisis.Neilson, the deputy mayor, says the decision to call off day zero came down to transparency. “It was about being honest with the public,” Neilson says. “People would quickly call us out if we didn’t tell the truth. Our credibility would be lost.”Now the city is charged with the onerous task of making sure residents don’t slip back into their old habits. Though day zero is out of the immediate picture, the major dams that supply water to the Western Cape are still only about 20% full. If the rains don’t show up during the South African winter, day zero could still happen.By then, however, the city hopes to boost the city’s water supply through methods that don’t rely on rainfall, like repairing water delivery infrastructure, drilling boreholes to access groundwater, desalination, and water re-use.A lot of ideas about how to bring more water to Cape Town have come past Neilson’s desk, including cloud seeding, harvesting water from the air and even towing a 100-million-tonne iceberg from Antarctica.“When somebody first tells you about it, you think it’s a crazy idea,” says Nick Sloane, a ship salvager who has been pitching the idea of the iceberg plan. “But the more you learn about it, it’s like, ‘Why not?” Just telling an entire city no one can ever take a bath again, Sloane says, is the “wrong answer.”Others would like to see the city look for long-term solutions closer to home. Christine Colvin, a water expert with the World Wildlife Fund, has been pushing the government to eliminate thirsty invasive species like pine, eucalyptus and wattle, which deplete dam reserves.By clearing non-native plants that are sucking up 38 million cubic metres of precious water each year, Colvin says Cape Town could be getting 7% more water annually.WWF has been saying this for awhile, but when the dams were full, nobody was listening. “There wasn’t really a case for it,” Colvin says. “Now, our dams are running dry.”This article is part of a series on possible solutions to some of the world’s most stubborn problems. What else should we cover? Email us at theupside@theguardian.com End of Source: #7 


Source #8: https://www.un.org/waterforlifedecade/africa.shtml 
Water's crucial role in accomplishing the continent's development goals is widely recognized. Africa faces endemic poverty, food insecurity and pervasive underdevelopment, with almost all countries lacking the human, economic and institutional capacities to effectively develop and manage their water resources sustainably. Thus, a large number of countries on the continent still face huge challenges in attempting to achieve the United Nations water-related Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) .Northern Africa and Sub-Saharan Africa even though in one continent, have made different levels of progress towards the Millennium Development Goal on water. North Africa has 92% coverage and is on track to meet its 94% target before 2015. However, Sub-Saharan Africa experiences a contrasting case with 40% of the 783 million people without access to an improved source of drinking water from the region. Sub-Saharan Africa is off track from meeting the MDG on water with just 61% water coverage and with the current pace cannot reach the 75% target set for the region.An analysis of data from 35 countries in sub-Saharan Africa (representing 84% of the region’s population) shows significant differences between the poorest and richest fifths of the population in both rural and urban areas. Over 90% of the richest quintile in urban areas use improved water sources, and over 60% have piped water on premises. In rural areas, piped-in water is non-existent in the poorest 40% of households, and less than half of the population use any form of improved source of water.Drinking water coverage by wealth quintiles, urban and rural residence, sub-Saharan Africa, based on population-weight averages from 35 countries (percentage).Source: Millennium Development Goals Report 2012.UN, July 2012.  Africa is one of the two major regions with the least improvement in accomplishing the MDG on sanitation by 2015. Despite the fact that North Africa has 90% coverage, Sub-Saharan Africa has a startling 30% coverage with only a 4% increase from 1990. This is a serious concern because of the associated massive health burden as many people who lack basic sanitation engage in unsanitary activities like open defecation, solid waste disposal and wastewater disposal. The practice of open defecation is the primary cause of faecal oral transmission of diseasewith children being the most vulnerable. Source: A snapshot of Drinking Water and Sanitation in Africa-2012 Update. AMCOW, WHO/UNICEF JMP, 2012. Source #9: https://reliefweb.int/report/south-africa/high-and-dry-can-we-fix-world-s-water-crisis 
By Mxolisi NcubeThis article is part of a series of stories and op-eds launched by IPS on the occasion of World Water Day on March 22.JOHANNESBURG, Mar 20 2018 (IPS) - April 12 is expected to be the infamous “Day Zero” in South Africa’s second largest city of Cape Town, a tourist hub which attracts millions of visitors every year.Just last year, the city reported a record-breaking increase in its tourist arrivals, with a slew of attractions that include Table Mountain Cableway, Robben Island and Cape Point — overall, about 28 percent more visitors than the previous year. Tourism provides more than 300,000 jobs in South Africa’s Western Cape Province, but they could soon be under threat as a water crisis threatens to put paid the city’s booming service industry.Among a slew of new rules as taps began to close, residents are now being forced to limit their water use to as little as 50 liters a day — in other words, bathe for a few seconds and flush the toilets once a day — or face stiff penaltiesPatricia de Lille, the mayor of South Africa’s troubled “Mother City”, recently warned that the time to beg residents to save water had elapsed, meaning the city would now force residents to comply. Businesses, including hotels, are also not being spared the stringent water rationing measures.Sisa Ntshona, head of South Africa’s tourism marketing arm, recently told the press that although tourists were still welcome in Cape Town, they were expected to save water “like locals” due to the fast-drying of the city’s water sources, which stood at 19 percent of their total capacity last week, following months of droughts.City experts warn that without a substantive amount of rain within the next few months, Cape Town could run out of water by July 9.That would grossly affect South Africa’s economic prospects. Tourism contributes more than 3 billion dollars to the Western Cape’s coffers every year, according to the Tourism Business Council of South Africa.Population growth, drought and climate change are among the key causes of the water crisis, according to a report  from Groundup, a joint project of Community Media Trust and the University of Cape Town’s Centre for Social Science Research, who state that since 1995 the city’s population has grown 79 percent, from about 2.4 million to an expected 4.3 million in 2018. Over the same period dam storage has increased by only 15 percent.The Berg River Dam, which began storing water in 2007, has been Cape Town’s only significant addition to water storage infrastructure since 1995. Its 130,000 megalitre capacity is over 14 percent of the 898,000 megalitres that can be held in Cape Town’s large dams. Had it not been for good water consumption management by the City, the current crisis could have hit much earlier, adds the organisation.Cape Town is in the middle of a drought, with decreased rainfall during the past two years for Theewaterskloof, the dam supplying more than half our water, adds the report.While Cape Town may be in the global spotlight at the moment, the water crisis is not limited to the South African city, as more and more urban centres, especially in Africa, are facing or on the brink of a similar crisis.The African non-governmental organization, the Water Project, estimates that at any given time, half of the world’s hospital beds are occupied by patients suffering from diseases associated with lack of access to clean water. The number rises to about 80 percent in developing countries.Beyond natural causes and consumption levels, experts say that water waste, poor water conservation policies and lack of political goodwill are some of the main reasons behind the water crisis afflicting most major cities.South Africa, for example, is losing 37 percent of its water supply through leaks across its many cities, according to a 2017 GreenCape market intelligence report.“The main cause of water crises in urban centres, and in almost every place, is poor water management,” Steven Downey, Global Water Partnership Head of Communications, told IPS.“Sure, droughts are bad, but they are not impossible to deal with. It takes a combination of planning, prevention, and mitigation, not waiting until the crisis actually happens. Global Water Partnership calls for action in three areas: participation (involve stakeholders in decision-making), integration (taking into account all sectors), and finance (provide money for infrastructure and for good governance of the resource),” he said.Jens Berggren, the Director of Communications for the Stockholm International Water Institute (SIWI), notes that there are several different types of water crises in urban centres across the world and in Africa.“In some places there is too little water, in some there is too much and almost everywhere the water is dirtier than we would want. With so many different types of water challenges it is impossible pinpoint the main cause,” says Berggren, who also notes that mismanagement is one of the causes.“On a very general level, the cause is that water is not being sufficiently well managed. In some places there is a lack of appropriate infrastructure, for example dams, treatment plants, boreholes, rainwater harvesting systems, pumps and pipes. In other places there is a lack of policies and/or of their enforcement resulting in poor service delivery, inefficient use, pollution, bad planning and/or implementation of projects. In many places, there is a lack of both governance and infrastructure.”There is also increasing water variability, especially in the transition areas between wetter and dryer climate zones (very roughly around 10 degrees and 30 degrees north and south of the equator), adds Berggren.There is also an increase in both the frequency and the intensity of extreme water and weather events, like downpours and droughts, increasing the need for both governance and infrastructure, while great inequality within urban areas in Africa and elsewhere — where some citizens are well served with and protected from water while others are struggling to get by on small and variable amounts of unsafe drinking water and get unsanitary floods when it rains — are also some of the causes.Ways of alleviating the problem depend a lot on the local situation.“Generally, improvements in governance and infrastructure need to go hand in hand, one without the other doesn’t work. The scope and size of the challenge also varies a lot,” Berggren said.“In places with very unequal water situations, some citizens must be incentivized to reduce their water use while others are encouraged to increase theirs (in order to stay healthy),” adds the SIWI official, who says in some places supply and demand doesn’t match up over the year, for example during short but intense rainy seasons. That means different methods and techniques exist for storing water.Where current demands exceed supplies, the possibilities for managing demand may include tiered pricing and expanding supply- transferring water from other basins, looking for new sources like ground- or rainwater, or treating “wastewater” for reuse. In view of the rising water variability, good water management will increasingly be about planning for the unexpected.“There is a lot to be learned but also a lot to be taught. Experiences and knowledge from urban water management in Africa seems increasingly sought after. For example, water reuse was pioneered in Windhoek, Namibia, and there is a huge interest in how Cape Town has managed the current drought but also in how they managed to reduce the water intensity – per capita as well as per economic activity, of the city before that,” says Breggren.“Once again, it is impossible to generalize, but a lesson that I think and hope is dawning on the western and northern parts of the world is that there has been overreliance on and overconfidence in infrastructure made of concrete and metal. Working with nature, e.g. avoiding floods by having spongy surfaces in and around cities, using so called green infrastructure or nature-based solutions is becoming more important. The key here is of course to know when to use what how and having governance structures (institutions, laws, guidelines, etc.) that allows and supports both kinds of infrastructure. I am sure that this is an area where African cities could both learn and lead the way.”While Cape Town’s water problems have attracted international headlines, South Africa’s northern neighbor, Zimbabwe, has silently lived with a serious water crisis for more than two decades. Zimbabwe’s capital city, Harare, has for close to two decades struggled with water  purification problems that resulted in a serious outbreak of typhoid fever a few years ago.The country’s second largest city, Bulawayo, is forced to ration its water supply almost every year, due to siltation in its supply dams, all located in the drought-stricken southern parts of the country.A recent BBC report warned that 11 other cities in the world, which include Sao Paulo (Brazil), Cairo (Egypt) and Beijing China, could be headed to equally stormy waters. It would therefore, be fundamental for the city authorities to heed the advice from experts.A service provided by
          UN OCHAReliefWeb has been the leading online source for reliable and timely humanitarian information on global crises and disasters since 1996.Learn more about ReliefWebLes récents visiteurs du site mobile de ReliefWeb auront remarqué un nouvel outil... Un sélecteur de langue est maintenant disponible dans le coin supérieur droit du site.
Visit the blog
Share information through ReliefWeb to better inform humanitarians worldwide.End of Source: #9 


Source #10: https://www.globalcitizen.org/en/content/cape-town-water-crisis-south-africa-drought/ 
Not a Global Citizen yet?
              Sign upForget your password?
          Thanks for signing up as a global citizen. In order to create your account we need you to provide your email address. You can check out our Privacy Policy to see how we safeguard and use the information you provide us with. If your Facebook account does not have an attached e-mail address, you'll need to add that before you can sign up.
        This account has been deactivated.
          Please contact us at contact@globalcitizen.org if you would like to re-activate your account.
        
        People who want to learn about and take action on the
        world’s biggest challenges.
        Extreme poverty ends with you.
        
          
          Check out original content and videos published every day to help you
          learn about the issues that mean the most to you.
          
        
          
          Send petitions, emails, or tweets to world leaders. Call governments or
          join rallies. We offer a variety of ways to make your voice heard.
          
        
          
          Meet other Global Citizens who care about the same issues you do. Keep
          updated on what they're doing to change the world.
          
        Find out more about Global Citizen
              

  By
  
    
      Lerato Mogoatlhe
              

  By
  
    
      Lerato MogoatlheAmanzimtoti is the isiZulu phrase for “sweet waters”. But for the residents of Egudwini in KwaZulu-Natal, the melodic name of their municipality is anything but sweet. The community’s water taps have reportedly been dry for years. Now their only source of clean drinking water has disappeared.The last time trucks from the eThekwini municipality delivered water to Egudwini was in November 2018, and even though residents report seeing four water tanks — filled by the water trucks — around the community, three no longer work.“We don’t even know when the truck is expected to come around,” one resident, Khumbuzile Nyembe told Ground Up news agency. “We have made numerous calls to the municipality but it has been a no show all of December and January.”Take Action: Encourage South African Corporates to Invest More Funds for Water ConservationThe Amanzimtoti municipality isn’t the only one facing severe water shortages either. South Africa has been experiencing frequent droughts since 2013, with low rainfall and water reserves that are being used up faster than they can be replenished.The crisis led to the provinces of Free State, KwaZulu-Natal, Mpumalanga, Limpopo, and the North West being declared disaster areas in 2013. Water scarcity became a national talking point once again in 2018 when severe droughts in the Western Cape forced the city of Cape Town to restrict water usage.Related Stories
          Feb. 16, 2018
        Thomson Reuters Foundation
          Drought-Stricken Cape Town Is Learning Resilience Lessons the Hard Way
        But while the city has now been able to recover from the crisis — and even avert Day Zero, when it was initially anticipated that there would no water at all in the city by April 2018 — more municipalities across the country are facing the same challenge, and it’s almost always the result of droughts.The villages of Xonxa and Gxabane in the Lady Frere district of Eastern Cape haven’t had clean drinking water since November 2018. With dams that have become dry, access to safe drinking water isn’t possible — with villagers having to hire trucks or donkeys to fetch water from Xonxa river, half a kilometre away from the village. But a report by the Water Research Commission, published in March 2018, says there is also more to the water crisis than droughts that the country experienced between 2014 and 2016.Related Stories
          Feb. 14, 2018
        
          Crop-Eating Worms and Droughts Are Threatening Mass Hunger in Africa
        “The drought did not cause water scarcity,” reads the report. “What the drought did was highlight existing vulnerabilities in South Africa’s water system. South Africa is a water-scarce country.”Water pollution is another of the key factors behind South Africa’s water scarcity, as the residents of Hammanskraal in Pretoria discovered when their drinking water was contaminated with human waste for months in 2018.The report by Donnenfeld, Crookes, and Hedden proposes a range of solutions that include protecting and replenishing water resources, and using groundwater that’s typically found between saturated soil and rock — which, according to the report, is an “underutilised resource” in the country.“Close to 85% of the country’s groundwater aquifers are under-allocated, and that there could be as much as 4.8 km3 worth of exploitable groundwater in South Africa,” continues the report.Related Stories
          Nov. 19, 2018
        Coca-Cola Africa
          How This Clean Water Initiative Empowers Young Women in Cape Town
        While the country explores solutions that will hopefully offer longer-lasting relief from possible water shortages, a very familiar story is playing out right now in Kannaland.The Western Cape municipality ran out of the water in the beginning of 2019 due to a drought that’s left Nel’s Dam — which supplies water to the municipality —  at 11%, and turned to the Gift of the Givers for help. Gift of the Givers is a South African disaster relief non-governmental organisation that works around Africa and other conflict areas around the world. In his letter to the organisation, municipal manager Reynold Stevens, said: “We are currently facing tremendous challenges regarding the provision of drinking water due to the drought and extreme dry weather conditions.”It’s a challenge that many municipalities around the country are bracing themselves for as temperatures rise.© 2012-2019 Global Poverty Project, Inc All Rights ReservedEnd of Source: #10 


Source #11: https://www.hydrofinity.com/blog/organizations-addressing-the-worlds-water-issues 
Because of the importance of water in sustaining life, the increasing demand for it as a result of global population growth, as well as the rate at which pollution and consumption is making useable water scarcer, it is more important than ever to find ways to conserve water. Conserving water not only helps all of us ensure a sustainable supply of drinking water for now, it helps ensure that our children and grandchildren will have access to the water they will need to survive.Thankfully, there are many government, non-profit, and even business organizations all over the world that are working to raise awareness about this critical issue. Today, we honor a few of these entities by making a list of organizations that have made significant contributions to water conservation efforts: whether by raising awareness, creating new standards for water efficiency, or making sizeable cuts to their own water use.While we wish we could recognize every organization that has made a contribution to water conservation efforts, there are far too many noteworthy organizations to fit into one blog post. So, here is our list of top organizations worthy of respect for their efforts to address the world’s water issues: hbspt.cta._relativeUrls=true;hbspt.cta.load(303944, 'edd09d46-518a-4d3f-acd4-9e4ff911e7cb', {}); Focused on bringing clean water to the “663 million people on the planet who don’t have clean water,” charity: water invites visitors to their website to follow them on their daily journey. Carry 80 pounds of water in yellow fuel cans. Dig with their children in sand for water. Line up at a well and wait eight hours for a turncharity: water is a non-profit organization bringing clean and safe drinking water to people in developing nationsRather than simply taking donations, Charity: Water gets people to start their own campaigns to raise money for clean water. The organization’s website walks you through a simple process of picking an activity and creating a page, promoting your campaign for clean water, and monitoring your donated funds after the fact.By getting people involved and thinking about how to make a difference, charity: water is doing more than just providing clean water to those in need, they are helping to change the way people think about water and not take this precious resource for granted. From its beginnings in 1974, the Clean Water Fund has worked to promote advocacy of clean, safe water and air, as well as a reduction in pollution in the home, community, and the workplace. The Fund’s programs are designed to “build on and complement those of Clean Water Action… which has helped develop, pass, strengthen and defend the [American] nation’s major water and toxics laws such as the Clean Water Act, Safe Drinking Water Act, Superfund and others.” The Global Water Challenge, or GWC, is a group that “connect organizations across sectors to solve our world’s most pressing water challenges through access to sustainable clean water, sanitation and hygiene (WASH).” This organization works to educate others about how to engage in sustainability programs that last to increase the success rate of WASH projects.GWC was instrumental to the establishment of the SustainableWASH.org site, coordinating with several other water sustainability awareness groups to help create a hub for people to discuss sustainable water initiatives. Where many of the other organizations on this list deal primarily with helping individual communities access clean water, Global Water Leaders is focused on producing results by collaborating with the owners/CEOs of water utility companies and other agencies. Through educating these businesses and getting them to think from a global perspective, Global Water Leaders is helping to create change in the way that water is managed.While not the only company to enact water-conservation efforts (their direct competitor, Coca Cola, has made similar efforts), PepsiCo has managed to make significant reductions in their water consumption in an industry that is absolutely reliant upon water resources. PepsiCo’s conservation efforts earned them a Stockholm Industry Water Prize in 2012.Access to safe water is at the heart of PepsiCo's global water strategy, in which we aim to enable long-term, sustainable water security for our business and others who depend on water availability. The company has invested more than $40 million in safe water access solutions with strategic partners as part of its goal to support a total of 25 million people with safe water access by 2025. A Laureate of the Stockholm water prize, the International Water Management Institute (IWMI) headquartered in Sri Lanka has worked tirelessly to produce research to give the rest of the world a useable knowledge base from which to understand water availability.Research such as IWMI’s “Comprehensive Assessment of Water Management in Agriculture” is invaluable in helping others create actionable plans for water conservation efforts in various regions of the world. On top of this, IWMI leads efforts to conserve water, including pushing for urban agricultural practices.As both a contributor to research and the implementation of water-conserving methods, IWMI is definitely noteworthy as helping address the world’s water issues. One of the largest environmental organizations in North America, the Nature Conservancy is dedicated to protecting both land and water resources for the good of people and nature. With more than a million members, the Nature Conservancy is actively “protecting rivers, lakes and natural lands in 30 countries and all 50 states.”By protecting these natural resources, the Nature Conservancy is helping ensure that they will be there for future generations, earning them a place on this list. Founded in 1991, the Stockholm International Water Institute (SIWI, for short) is a policy institute centered in Stockholm, Sweden that performs research, helps build institutional capacity, and provides advisory services regarding water resources.Each year, SIWI holds a “World Water Week in Stockholm” event, where they award prizes to organizations and individuals who have made significant contributions to water conservation. These awards include the:By working to help guide policy and educate others, as well as working to recognize the efforts of others, SIWI has more than earned a place on this list. UN-Water coordinates the efforts of United Nations entities and international  organizations working on water and sanitation issues. Over 30 UN organizations carry out water and sanitation programmes, reflecting the fact that water issues run through all of the UN’s main focus areas. UN-Water’s role is to coordinate so that the UN family ‘delivers as one’ in response to water related challenges.One of UN-Water’s key objectives is to provide coherent and reliable data and information on key water trends and management issues. During past decades, several initiatives, mechanisms and programmes, both within and outside the United Nations family, have been collecting information on the various components of the water cycle. On World Water Day, UN-Water releases the World Water Development Report focusing on the same topic as the campaign.The Water Project is an organization that is helping communities in sub-Saharan Africa gain access to clean drinking water. By helping communities to dig wells, dams, build rain-catching equipment, filter surface water, and improve sanitation & hygiene practices, the Water Project helps to improve the quality of life for these communities.As the world’s largest multilateral source of financing for water in developing countries, the World Bank is working closely with partners to achieve “A Water-Secure World for All,” by investing in water solutions that enable universal access, promote water security, and build resilient societies.The World Bank’s water portfolio currently covers 170 projects worth US$26.7 billion in lending and technical expertise. Around 70% of lending is for services such as water supply and sanitation and irrigation projects. In addition, projects with a water sector-related component managed by other global practices of the World Bank total approximately $10 billion, meaning the Bank’s total water-related investments are $37 billion.While money alone won’t solve the problem, contributions from the World Bank can help provide vital infrastructure for communities to give them access to clean, safe drinking water. For this reason, the World Bank makes the list for top organizations addressing the world’s water issues.The World Resources Institute (WRI) works to protect the climate, establish clean power systems, reduce the impact of food industries on the environment, prevent deforestation, create a water-secure future, and improve quality of life in cities.While they work on a variety of environmental and humanitarian issues, their work on creating water risk maps will help others better plan water conservation and distribution efforts to minimize water shortages in the future.Established in 1996, the World Water Council is an international organization that works to “promote awareness, build political commitment and trigger action on critical water issues… to facilitate the efficient conservation, protection, development, planning, management and use of water.”To this end, the Council has helped facilitate numerous dialogues on the subject of water conservation amongst nations, such as the “Water for Food and Environment” and the “Water and Climate” dialogues. By raising awareness and pushing governments to act on water conservation issues, the World Water Council is a major force behind water conservation efforts.When you think of the World Wildlife Fund (WWF), water conservancy might not be your first thought. However as an extension of their efforts to preserve wildlife and animal habitats, the WWF works extensively to promote water conservation efforts.As a part of their efforts to protect and conserve water resources, the WWF works with multiple governments who share freshwater resources and protects river sources to keep clean water available to as many people as possible without damaging water sources.Water.org is a non-profit organization that operates in several different regions of the world, including Africa, Central America, and Southeast Asia. This group operates by securing funding for local water projects and working with local partners in each region rather than tying themselves to any one partner organization, helping them stay flexible and cost-effective.One of Water.org’s central tenets is the concept of community ownership of any water project(s). As they state on their website, “for a project to be truly successful, communities must be viewed and must view themselves as the owners of the project.” To this end, Water.org strives to make sure that the communities involved are engaged at every level of their respective projects from planning all the way to financing and maintenance.As we mentioned earlier, there are many organizations out there who are deserving of mention for their efforts to address the world’s water issues. While we can’t cover them all here, even in brief as we have done for the ones in this list, it is our hope that these examples will inspire you to find ways to conserve water in your own home or business.  hbspt.cta._relativeUrls=true;hbspt.cta.load(303944, '5fa1a5ab-43f7-46a3-a161-8390ac785bd6', {});  Topics:
                        
                            Sustainability
August 20, 2019August 12, 2019©2019 Hydrofinity. All Rights Reserved    |    Hydrofinity Quality PolicyXeros Technology Group    |    Marken PPEEnd of Source: #11 


Source #12: https://www.cfr.org/backgrounder/water-stress-sub-saharan-africa 
End of Source: #12 


Source #13: https://thewaterproject.org/water-scarcity 
Clean, safe drinking water is scarce. Today, nearly 1 billion people in the developing world don't have access to it. Yet, we take it for granted, we waste it, and we even pay too much to drink it from little plastic bottles.Water is the foundation of life. And still today, all around the world, far too many people spend their entire day searching for it.In places like sub-Saharan Africa, time lost gathering water and suffering from water-borne diseases is limiting people's true potential, especially women and girls.Education is lost to sickness. Economic development is lost while people merely try to survive. But it doesn't have to be like this. It's needless suffering.In places like sub-Saharan Africa, time lost gathering water and suffering from water-borne diseases is limiting people's true potential, especially women and girls.Education is lost to sickness. Economic development is lost while people merely try to survive. But it doesn't have to be like this. It's needless suffering.Simply put, water scarcity is either the lack of enough water (quantity) or lack of access to
safe water (quality).It's hard for most of us to imagine that clean, safe water is not something that can be taken for
granted. But, in the developing world, finding a reliable source of safe water is often time-consuming and expensive. This is known as economic
scarcity. Water can be found...it simply requires more resources to do it. In other areas, the lack of water is a more profound problem. There simply isn't enough. That is
known as physical scarcity.
The problem of water scarcity is a growing one. As more people put ever-increasing demands on
limited supplies, the cost and effort to build or even maintain access to water will increase.
And water's importance to political and social stability will only grow with the crisis.When students are freed from gathering water, they return to class. With proper and safe latrines, girls stay in school through their teenage years.Safe water, clean hands, healthy bodies. Time lost to sickness is reduced and people can get back to the work of lifting themselves out of poverty.Access to water leads to food security. With less crop loss, hunger is reduced. Schools can feed students with gardens, reducing costs.Access to water can break the cycle of poverty. The communities we serve are ready to grow. We can't wait to see how they choose to do it.In some places, it is simply dry. Water is hard to find. In others, this most critical need is
literally only a few feet below ground waiting to sustain life.The Water Project, Inc. is a non-profit organization working to provide access to clean water to
people in developing nations who suffer needlessly without it.With our team of supporters we're funding clean water projects like water wells and rain
catchment systems.AboutThe Water CrisisGet InvolvedGive Clean WaterHow WeProve Our WorkEnd of Source: #13 


Source #14: http://www.fao.org/fao-stories/article/en/c/1150870/ 
A FAO-supported dairy farmer gives water to her cow in Yemen. @FAO/Chedly KayouliThe Middle East and North Africa is the world's most water-scarce region and the situation is worsening due to the impacts of conflict, climate change and economic downturn. The water crisis threatens the region’s stability as well as its human development and sustainable growth. Pasquale Steduto is FAO’s Delivery Manager for the Water Scarcity initiative in the Near East and North Africa.  Here he discusses the region’s water scarcity challenges, and the vital role of sustainable water management for building resilience, sustaining peace and improving people’s livelihoods and well-being.Q: Just how bad is the water crisis in the region, and what are the main drivers?Water resources per capita in the region account for just one-sixth of the global average and they continue to dwindle. Every country in the region is experiencing groundwater depletion, with overall very high rates of withdrawal of both surface and groundwater. This means agriculture is struggling to compete for water with industry and other sectors. In addition, the climate, which is largely arid to hyper-arid and highly variable, is changing, with drought becoming more frequent. Countries in the Middle East and North Africa have been at the forefront of developing practices and institutions to manage scarce water resources in arid climates. However, in some countries distortions in policies and institutions have resulted in the failure of water management systems to signal any potential water shortages. In some cases, they have encouraged over-exploitation of resources by failing to implement incentives to curb water consumption and promote conservation. As a result, the current water crisis has reached unprecedented levels and requires coordinated responses across the region.Q: What is the link between water scarcity and fragile environments marked by conflict and displacement? Fragility has become the reality in several countries of the Middle East and North Africa. Armed conflict and forced displacement are taking an enormous toll on human lives, with the region accounting for about 60 percent of the estimated global total of battle-related casualties since the turn of the millennium.Fragility also exacerbates the region’s water problems. Even before the recent political turmoil, several countries in the Middle East and North Africa were struggling to manage their water resources sustainably and efficiently and to expand coverage of water supply and sanitation services. Now conflict combined with some institutional obstacles has contributed to an intensification of water challenges and a deterioration of water services.For example, in Syria - once one of the region’s top Millennium Development Goals performers - the recent conflict has pushed more than 3 million people into poverty. Deteriorating access to water and sanitation services has led to increased incidence of waterborne diseases. As a result, the mortality rate of children under five due to diarrhea has increased threefold since the start of the conflict.In Yemen, over 10 million people, about 46 percent of the total population, are considered to be food insecure, and about 12 million people lack access to safe water or sanitation.Failure to find solutions to water challenges aggravates fragility. Water crises strain the ability of individuals and societies to maintain livelihood security and political stability. We need to break this vicious circle to ensure recovery, peace, food and water security and sustainable development in the region.Q: What needs to happen to better address water-related challenges, especially in countries affected by conflict and displacement?Where conflicts begin to dissipate, the restoration of basic water and sanitation services should become a priority. In the recovery phase, water for agriculture is important as it provides for people’s livelihoods.Addressing water and fragility challenges requires combining an immediate response to people’s basic needs with a long-term approach aimed at building resilience to shocks and protracted crises. The latter should rely on sustainable, efficient and equitable water resources management and service delivery.Investment in innovative policies and practices is also pivotal as research, technology development and transfer can provide further improvements to water efficiency and crop productivity in the region. It can also greatly increase the resilience of rainfed agricultural systems, for instance by promoting land conservation and reclamation practices.More importantly, working together within countries and across boundaries is essential. Collective action and partnerships are essential given the scale and commonality of the challenges, the relatively small size of many of the countries in the region and the transboundary nature of important issues like climate change and shared water resources.Above: See an innovative approach to water challenges in Yemen.Q: What is FAO doing to address water scarcity in the region? Could you give us some examples?FAO’s Water Scarcity Regional Initiative (WSI) supports countries in the region to strategically plan their water resource management and allocation, review their water, food security and energy policies, formulate effective investment plans, modernize governance and institutions, account for transboundary surface and ground water and adopt good agricultural practices.One FAO project in Yemen is helping farmers take advantage of dam water to improve sustainability and give women more opportunities to participate in decision-making processes. FAO has been supporting the establishment and reorganization of more than 35 Water User Associations in the capital Sanaa to better regulate water consumption, helping them with funding, equipment. In the process, these associations provide space for new thinking like resolving tribal disputes over water.The Sanaa Basin Project is an example of how FAO supports different types of activities – aimed not only  at meeting the immediate food and nutrition needs of millions of Yemenis, but also facilitating projects that can positively impact the restoration of the country’s overall agriculture infrastructure.Another FAO project in the West Bank and Gaza Strip focused on supporting efficient irrigation systems and addressed poor management and inefficient use of water resources by repairing damaged  irrigation systems. This has improved access to clean water for irrigation and put an end to social conflicts over water usage.FAO’s project rehabilitated more than 30 water conveyance systems in the West Bank, improving the efficiency of almost 150 kilometers of water piping for domestic and agricultural use. As a result, farmers once again could access sufficient water, ensuring equitable distribution. Water loss through leakages was eliminated and the use of untreated wastewater for irrigation purposes was curbed.The project has enabled around 200 farming families in An-Nassariyeh to increase their production, cut  costs and avoid using unsafe contaminated water. In addition to mitigating social, economic and environmental impacts on communities, the pipe rehabilitation work led to the creation of seasonal jobs for at least 2,000 agricultural workers in the West Bank.Find out more:6. Clean water and sanitation, 16. Peace justice and strong institutions© FAO, 2019End of Source: #14 


Source #15: https://www.grida.no/resources/5816 
Year: 2005From collection: Vital Water Graphics
Cartographer:
              Philippe Rekacewicz, Delphine Digout, UNEP/GRID-Arendal
            
Tags:

graphicsmaps
 
recoursces!
 


              View all media
            



 
































































































































































































































































































































































































End of Source: #15 


Source #16: https://www.classy.org/blog/nonprofits-address-global-water-crisis/ 
Consider these three statistics:Clean water is a basic necessity for life, but it is not a reality for much of our global population. In response, many social impact organizations work tirelessly to eliminate this threat, save lives, and transform societies for the better. In honor of World Water Day, we’ve highlighted 12 Classy clients that currently address the global water crisis. While they work toward the common goal of providing clean water, each focus on a specific angle of the overarching issue. Free Download: The Guide to Nonprofit StorytellingBlood:Water partners with African communities to end the HIV/AIDS and water crises. In an effort to fit every community’s varying needs, the organization provides a wide range of solutions. From toilets and hand washing stations, to services preventing mother-to-child HIV/AIDS transmission, local partners are empowered to choose the solutions that would best serve their communities. These leaders then activate and educate the people around them through meetings, local support groups, and training sessions.Since their launch in 2004, Blood:Water has worked with more than a dozen African grassroots organizations and brought clean water to one million people in 11 different countries.Learn more about Blood:Water’s initiatives and how they’ve grown with Classy in this new video.Generosity.org currently brings safe water to Haiti, Ghana, Uganda, and India. Through collaboration, they leverage the knowledge and expertise of their local partners to select the appropriate water solution for each region, which can include different types of wells, rain-water harvesting systems, and spring protection systems.To see the effort through for years to come, a local water committee is appointed to supervise each water project and its construction, as well as maintain the project throughout the years. Local partners also allow Generosity.org to build relationships with each community and provide sanitation and hygiene training.Generosity.org has launched 727 projects in 19 countries, serving more than 415,000 individuals to date. Learn more about their efforts and discover how you can get involved.In order to build sustainable projects, Splash serves disadvantaged cities by working with local governments and businesses. In addition to providing filtration systems, Splash educates children about effective hygiene practices and trains local organizations and businesses to properly maintain toilets.Splash creates these safe water projects though strategic partnerships with local entities to solidify long-lasting solutions. The existing technology and supply chains used by commercial markets—such as those of topnotch restaurants and hotels—inform the strategies that then bring the same, high-quality care to families in need.We partner with local governments and business precisely because they are local, and there to stay. Government has the primary responsibility to provide basic services like water and sanitation to their citizens and will be the body most capable of ensuring that these services last. But quite often, they are underfunded or incapable of meeting the needs, and there exists a very important role for charities and local businesses to play. Local businesses are part of ensuring that products and services can be self sustaining.We collaborate with government bodies to make sure we are in alignment on the target populations, the quality of services to be provided, and to make sure there is no duplication of efforts. We work with local businesses to ensure that products related to water filtration, hand washing, or sanitation are easily accessible locally and available over the long term.”– Aaron Walling, Senior Programs ManagerSplash has impacted 339,984 children to date. Learn more about Splash’s model.Lifewater International is a Christian water development organization that serves vulnerable children and families by partnering with underserved communities in remote and rural areas of East Africa and Southeast Asia. National staff on the ground also live in the areas they serve. Community members drive change from household to household by actively participating in the development process, constructing their own home latrines, drying racks, and handwashing stations.What we’ve learned over our 40 years of experience of doing rural water development is that providing safe water is not enough. We walk alongside families, leaders, and churches in overcoming all forms of water poverty as communities themselves take steps toward better health through practicing good hygiene and sanitation. When combined with a safe water source (that the community locally maintains and manages through a water committee), the health changes taking place at the household and community level have a lasting impact.”– Christine Zurbach, Vice President of PhilanthropyIn 2015, Lifewater provided over 50,000 people with safe drinking water, sanitation, and hygiene, as well as completed 107 water projects. Learn how you can get involved today.Planet Water Foundation serves schools, children, and rural communities around the world by installing water filtration systems and launching health education programs. Their filtration systems, called “AquaTowers,” trap bacteria, viruses, and other harmful matter and provide 1,000 people with 10,000 liters of clean water per day. Children can also wash their hands in the soap dishes mounted around the structure.Planet Water Foundation can install these systems in one day, and rather than having to replace them, the community members just need to clean these AquaTowers over time. Its easy maintenance procedures and affordable initial cost help make this a sustainable solution.The organization aims to serve 5 million people by 2020. Learn more about Planet Water Foundation and how their AquaTowers are changing the world.Ride4Water rides bikes to raise money for water solutions. After Founder and Executive Director Ryan Delameter participated in a 10,000-mile bike ride through 10 countries to fundraise and raise awareness for the global water crisis, he founded Ride4Water and continued the tradition through their annual, long-distance “Ride4water” rides. With the capital they’ve raised, they have installed Hollow Fiber Membrane Filtration systems in homes for communities in Oaxaca, Fiji, and El Salvador. These filters essentially act like a “coffee filter” that traps harmful bacteria and microorganisms found in water.Ride4Water’s long term vision is to turn the ocean into a viable source of drinking water. They are currently developing their Decentralized Desalination Device (D3), a tool that will use sunlight, clay, and aluminum to enable those living on the coast to gain access to an unlimited water supply.In 2015, a Ride4Water team traveled to three different regions in El Salvador to install filters in 60 homes, impacting 200 people. Learn more about their work and plans for the future.Since 2005, Water 1st International has empowered vulnerable communities in Bangladesh, Ethiopia, Honduras, and India to build and sustain solutions that provide clean water access and toilets.Through a loan, community members using the systems pay the initial costs to build the system. Water 1st International then continues to provide grant support to their local partner organization to implement water and sanitation solutions and help them retain staff. On average, communities in the Bangladesh program repay their loans 98 percent of the time. These funds are then circulated to launch new projects. The success of these repayments, however, extends far beyond just the monetary value.Small loans are quite common in Bangladesh, so most of our project participants are familiar with how they work. They understand the cycle of repayment, and how that has benefited them and will benefit the next loan recipient.The revolving loan model catalyzes unity in the slums by building compassion in an environment where, in order to survive, it’s easy to adopt a “look out for number one” attitude. In these projects, people have a choice. They can scrimp and save and repay the loan. That would help their neighbor. Or they could default and use the money on their own needs. Faced with this choice, the poorest people in the world are overwhelmingly, almost unanimously, choosing to help one another.”– Marla Smith-Nilson, Executive DirectorTo date, the organization has raised $14 million and provided 140,570 people with clean water. Find out how their loan program continues to expand their impact.Safe Water Network’s mission is to build affordable, locally-owned water systems for communities in Ghana and India. While their organization provides the tools to use these systems, or “Safe Water Stations,” community members eventually take ownership of them and operate them as small businesses. Instead of being perceived as beneficiaries, individuals are seen as consumers and business owners.To ensure financial stability, the stations sell water to help cover operating and maintenance costs. Safe Water Network provides the education and equipment to manage these stations, as well as the technical services and monitoring necessary to keep them in top condition. They also continue to improve this model by partnering with experts in academia and the public and private sectors for new insights.Safe Water Network has installed 65 stations in Ghana, giving 203,000 people access to water. Their India program has installed 118 stations in the country to serve 413,477 individuals. Find out how Safe Water Network continues to innovate their programs.Thirst Project educates students about the clean water crisis and mobilizes them to take action. They travel to secondary schools and universities across the United States to activate who they believe are the real game changers: young supporters. Thirst Project also encourages students to start their own Thirst Project Clubs to raise awareness about the cause within their schools.In addition to raising awareness, Thirst Project also has boots on the ground in India, Uganda, Ethiopia, El Salvador, Kenya, and Colombia. There, they focus primarily on building hand pump wells that typically last over 40 years.Since 2008, they have spoken to over 300,000 students and provided water to over 280,000 people. Learn more about Thirst Project and how they’re mobilizing young supporters.Water for Good is a faith-based organization that focuses on impacting the Central African Republic. They build long-term relationships with communities in order to create sustainable clean water solutions. Before the organization drills a well, they employ village trainers to help facilitate the appointment of a well committee by the community.Women are often more successful at managing their family’s budget, so we always recommend that there be at least one woman on the committee. They are also much more likely than men to be the ones responsible for fetching water for the family, another reason why it’s critical to have them represented on the committee. We also recommend that someone involved in village leadership (the chief, the pastor, etc.) be on the committee to provide input, but not as the president of the committee.We usually ask the village to consider hiring a “pompiste,” a person who sits by the pump to collect payments and make sure that the water collection occurs in an orderly fashion. This is perfect for a respected older man, who might not have the energy to be out working in the fields, but would be great at providing a stable presence at the well, and trustworthy to collect the payment. His own salary comes out of the water payments collected. Our village trainers have helped hundreds of committees manage their wells, and are able to answer questions and point out potential problems that they’ve run into before.”– Jay Hocking, Director of CommunicationsIn 10 years, the organization has built over 590 wells, and their maintenance service monitors over nine hundred. Learn more about their programs.The Last Well is also a faith-based organization. Their mission is to bring safe water to all Liberians by 2020. While no country has historically been able to provide clean water to all of its citizens—nor eliminate water-borne diseases or sickness—The Last Well aims to change that narrative for the entire nation of Liberia.Since 2009, the organization has served over 750,000 individuals through over 1,000 water projects, mainly wells. Equipped with a missional strategy, The Last Well is dedicated to transforming villages and hopes to reach 900,000 more individuals through 2,500 water systems.Learn more about The Last Well and their vision for Liberia.The story behind Let Them LOL’s name starts with their founder’s laugh. Her laugh was so unique, the team decided to turn it into a ringtone and charge for every download to fundraise for clean water. Alongside this founding initiative, Let Them LOL has continued to develop their vision and story of giving others a voice and serving those in need.Let Them LOL focuses on one country, Sierra Leone. They build wells to provide poverty-stricken communities with access to safe water. While many pumps tend to deteriorate after just a few years, Let Them LOL is determined to break this pattern through the identification of locally-appropriate solutions and the maintenance of their water projects for years to come.Prior to installing a water system, we conduct an assessment to best understand the needs of the community and the resources they have. We meet with their leaders to discuss together the best solutions for them. Water systems included drilled borehole wells, hand dug wells, well repairs, and water filter systems. We chose this strategy because each community is unique and our goal is to find the best system that works for them.What makes us very unique is that we have a Well Maintenance program. Our Sierra Leone maintenance team travels around to all of our communities where we have wells, servicing them and making repairs. This ensures that the clean water continues to flow for many years.”– Kate Vacanti, DirectorTo date, Let Them LOL has served 30,000 people through their clean water wells. Learn more about their initiatives.These organizations all play a part in bringing safe water to every individual, everywhere. But they are only pieces of the ongoing narrative. Play your part in solving the global water crisis, today. Check out these organizations and their initiatives and learn how you can help bring clean, safe water to people around the world.Liz is a managing editor at Classy. Pizza, stories, and flea markets are her jam.(619) 961-1892© Classy 2019 End of Source: #16 


Source #17: https://www.unwater.org/water-facts/scarcity/ 
Water scarcity already affects every continent. Water use has been growing globally at more than twice the rate of population increase in the last century, and an increasing number of regions are reaching the limit at which water services can be sustainably delivered, especially in arid regions.Drought in Niger in 2011. Photo: WFP/Phil BehanAerial shots of Ricefields near Baucau, Timor Leste. UN Photo/Martine PerretPlease consider the environment before printing.
Print with images and
                                    graphics
Print just text
                                    

Water stress starts when the water available in a country drops below 1 700 m3/year or 4 600 litres/day per person. When the 1 000 m3/year or about 2 700 litres/day per person threshold is crossed, water scarcity is experienced. Absolute water scarcity is considered for countries with less 500 m3/year or roughly 1 400 litres/day per person. By this definition, 49 countries are water stressed, 9 of which experience water scarcity and 21 absolute water scarcity.
End of Source: #17 


Source #18: http://www.grida.no/resources/5625 
Year: 2009From collection: Vital Water Graphics 2
Cartographer:
              Philippe Rekacewicz, February 2006
            


              View all media
            



 









































































































































































































































































































































































































































































                View all publications
              



 End of Source: #18 


